---
title: 'Thinking About Taiwan Again'
date: 2020-01-12
permalink: /posts/2020/01/thinking-about-taiwan-again
tags:
  - personal
  - taiwan
---

Taiwan just wrapped up its 2020 presidential election and Tsai Ing-Wen is re-elected! The election, plus my re-reading of *Green Island* by Shawna Yang Ryan, had me thinking about Taiwan's complicated political past again. (Side note: I find it interesting that the older generation, who remember living under a one-party dictatorship and seeing people disappear under "mysterious circumstances", are the same people who supported the pro-Beijing presidential candidate, Han Kuo-Yu. Come to think of it, I should probably ask my political science major friend.)

Before college, I took Taiwanese democracy for granted. It was all I ever knew, and so I never questioned how my mom's Taiwanese talk shows were just middle-aged Taiwanese citizens shouting criticisms about their government. In America I heard criticisms of Obama; in Taiwan I heard them about Ma Ying-jeou. In both places nobody appeared scared or worried about their criticism.

But when I was eighteen, I was sitting at the dinner table with my parents when my dad off-handedly mentioned that his two uncles had been killed by the Taiwanese government when my grandmother was in her twenties. He said it was because the government was worried they had too much influence in their communities and might lead anti-government or Communist efforts against them. Naive as I was, I thought my great-uncles were an anomaly in Taiwanese history that might've been recorded as shocking news.

Instead I found that they were only two casualties of the White Terror, a period of martial law in Taiwan that spanned *four decades* from the 1940s to the 1980s. Taiwan hasn't even been a democracy longer than it was a dictatorship. Suddenly a lot about my parents made sense: their stories about being hit for speaking Taiwanese in school, my mom's concern around normalcy, my parents' insistence that we were definitely Taiwanese, or 台灣人. Their generation grew up under the Kuomintang's brutal dictatorship until their twenties, and in those days asserting that you were *Taiwanese*, not a good Chinese Nationalist like the Kuomintang insisted you should be, was a radical act. Ironically it was the Kuomintang's harsh rule that got *benshengren*, the ethnic Chinese who lived in Taiwan before the Kuomintang's arrival to the island, to start the ideation of a "Taiwanese" identity. I was born into that identiy by virtue of my own *benshengren* parents and my local Taiwanese-American community, but for much of my life I didn't realize how much work Taiwanese people had put into forging that identity.

Reading stories about the Hong Kong riots of today always make me think of Taiwan's fight toward democracy. Taiwanese protestors endured water cannons and tear gas from the Kuomintang's police. They were routinely locked up and killed. Like any protestors, they never knew if their vision would come true. It was possible the Kuomintang would rule forever in a cruel fascimile of a republic. What I find so incredible is that despite everything, they kept going. Even as they saw their local doctors, professors, students disappearing; even as their languages were supressed; even as it might've seemed like dawn might never break, they continued advocating for democracy. I love many aspects of being Taiwanese-American, but I love this legacy of courage most ardently.

---
